CHAPTER XXVIII.
And take thou unto thee Aaron thy brother, and his sons with him, from among the children
of Israel, that he may minister unto me in the priest's office, even Aaron, Nadab, and
Abihu, Eliezer, and Ithamar, Aaron's sons.
And thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron thy brother, for glory, and for beauty.
And thou shalt speak unto all that are wise-hearted, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom
that they may make Aaron's garments to consecrate him, that he may minister unto me in the priest's
office.
And these are the garments which they shall make, a breast-plate, and an ephod, and a
robe, and a broidered coat, a mitre, and a girdle.
And they shall make holy garments for Aaron thy brother, and his sons, that he may minister
unto me in the priest's office.
And they shall take gold, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen.
And they shall make the ephod of gold, of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and fine-twined
linen, with cunning work.
It shall have the two shoulder-pieces thereof joined at the two edges thereof, and so it
shall be joined together.
And the curious girdle of the ephod which is upon it shall be of the same according
to the work thereof, even of gold, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine-twined linen.
And thou shalt take two onyx stones, and engrave on them the names of the children of Israel,
six of their names on one stone, and the other six names of the rest on the other stone according
to their birth.
With the work of an engraver and stone, like the engravings of a signet, shalt thou engrave
the two stones with the names of the children of Israel, thou shalt make them to be set
in ushahs of gold.
And thou shalt put the two stones upon the shoulders of the ephod for stones of memorial
unto the children of Israel, and Aaron shall bear their names before the Lord upon his
two shoulders for a memorial.
And thou shalt make ushahs of gold and two chains of pure gold at the ends, of wreath
and work, shalt thou make them and fasten the wreath and chains to the ushahs.
And thou shalt make the breastplate of judgment with cunning work, after the work of the ephod
thou shalt make it, of gold, of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine-twined
linen shalt thou make it.
Four square it shall be being doubled, a span shall be the length thereof, and a span shall
be the breadth thereof.
And thou shalt set in it settings of stones, even four rows of stones, the first row shall
be a sardius, a topaz, and a carvokal, this shall be the first row, and the second row
shall be an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond, and the third row a ligure, an agate, and
an amethyst, and the fourth row a burl, and an onyx, and a jasper, they shall be set in
their enclosings.
And the stones shall be with the names of the children of Israel, twelve, according
to their names, like the engravings of a signet, every one with his name shall they be according
to the twelve tribes.
And thou shalt make upon the breastplate chains at the ends of wreath and work of pure gold.
And thou shalt make upon the breastplate two rings of gold, and shalt put the two rings
on the two ends of the breastplate.
And thou shalt put the two wreath and chains of gold in the two rings which are on the
ends of the breastplate.
And the other two ends of the two wreath and chains thou shalt fasten in the two ooshes,
and put them on the shoulder-pieces of the ephod before it.
And thou shalt make two rings of gold, and thou shalt put them upon the two ends of the
breastplate in the border thereof, which is in the side of the ephod inward.
And two other rings of gold thou shalt make, and shalt put them on the two sides of the
ephod underneath, toward the fore-part thereof, over against the other coupling thereof, above
the curius girdle of the ephod.
And they shall bind the breastplate by the rings thereof, unto the rings of the ephod,
with a lace of blue, that it may be above the curius girdle of the ephod, and that the
breastplate be not loosed from the ephod.
And Aaron shall bear the names of the children of Israel, and the breastplate of judgment,
upon his heart, when he goeth in unto the holy place, for a memorial before the Lord
continually.
And thou shalt put in the breastplate of judgment the Urim and the Thummim, and they shall be
upon Aaron's heart, when he goeth in before the Lord, and Aaron shall bear the judgment
of the children of Israel, upon his heart, before the Lord continually.
And thou shalt make the robe of the ephod all of blue, and there shall be a hole in
the top of it, in the midst thereof, it shall have a binding of woven work round about the
hole of it, as it were the hole of an hebergen, that it be not rent.
And beneath upon the hem of it, thou shalt make pomegranates of blue, and of purple,
and of scarlet, round about the hem thereof, and bells of gold between them round about,
a golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, upon the hem of the
robe round about.
And it shall be upon Aaron to minister, and his sound shall be heard, when he goeth in
unto the holy place before the Lord, and when he cometh out, that he die not.
And thou shalt make a plate of pure gold, and grave upon it, like the engravings of
a signet, holiness to the Lord.
And thou shalt put it on a blue lace, that it may be upon the mitre, upon the forefront
of the mitre it shall be.
And it shall be upon Aaron's forehead, that Aaron may bear the iniquity of the holy things
which the children of Israel shall hallow in all their holy gifts.
And it shall be always upon his forehead, that they may be accepted before the Lord.
And thou shalt embroider the coat of fine linen, and thou shalt make the mitre of fine
linen, and thou shalt make the girdle of needlework.
And for Aaron's sons thou shalt make coats, and thou shalt make for them girdles, and
bonnets shalt thou make for them, for glory and for beauty.
And thou shalt put them upon Aaron thy brother, and his sons with him, and shalt anoint them,
and consecrate them, and sanctify them, that they may minister unto me in the priest's
office.
And thou shalt make them linen breeches to cover their nakedness, for in the loins even
unto the thighs they shall reach.
And they shall be upon Aaron, and upon his sons, when they come in unto the tabernacle
of the congregation, or when they come near unto the altar to minister in the holy place,
that they bear not iniquity and die.
It shall be a statute for ever unto him and his seed after him.
CHAPTER XXIX
And this is the thing that thou shalt do unto them to hallow them to minister unto me in
the priest's office.
Take one young bullock and two rams without blemish, and unleavened bread and cakes unleavened,
tempered with oil, and wafers unleavened anointed with oil, of wheat and flour shalt thou make
them.
And thou shalt put them into one basket, and bring them in the basket with the bullock
and the two rams.
And Aaron and his sons thou shalt bring unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation,
and shalt wash them with water.
And thou shalt take the garments, and put upon Aaron the coat and the robe of the ephod
and the ephod and the breastplate, and guard him with the curious girdle of the ephod.
And thou shalt put the mitre upon his head, and put the holy crown upon the mitre.
Then shalt thou take the anointing oil, and pour it upon his head, and anoint him.
And thou shalt bring his sons, and put coats upon them.
And thou shalt gird them with girdles, Aaron and his sons, and put the bonnets on them.
And the priest's office shall be theirs for a perpetual statute.
And thou shalt consecrate Aaron and his sons.
And thou shalt cause a bullock to be brought before the tabernacle of the congregation,
and Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the head of the bullock.
And thou shalt kill the bullock before the Lord by the door of the tabernacle of the
congregation.
And thou shalt take the blood of the bullock, and put it upon the horns of the altar with
thy finger, and pour all the blood beside the bottom of the altar.
And thou shalt take all the fat that covereth thee inwards, and the caul that is above the
and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and burn them upon the altar.
But the flesh of the bullock, and his skin, and his dung, shalt thou burn with fire without
the camp.
It is a sin offering.
Thou shalt also take one ram, and Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the head
of the ram.
And thou shalt slay the ram, and shalt take his blood, and sprinkle it round about upon
the altar.
And thou shalt cut the ram in pieces, and wash the inwards of him, and his legs, and
put them under his pieces, and unto his head.
And thou shalt burn the whole ram upon the altar.
It is a burnt offering unto the Lord.
It is a sweet savor, an offering made by fire, unto the Lord.
And thou shalt take the other ram, and Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the
head of the ram.
Then shalt thou kill the ram, and take of his blood, and put it upon the tip of the
right ear of Aaron, and upon the tip of the right ear of his sons, and upon the thumb
of their right hand, and upon the great toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood
upon the altar round about.
And thou shalt take of the blood that is upon the altar, and of the anointing oil, and sprinkle
Aaron, and upon his garments, and upon his sons, and upon the garments of his sons with
him.
And he shall be hallowed, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons' garments with
Also thou shalt take of the ram the fat, and the rump, and the fat that covereth the inwards,
and the call above the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and
the right shoulder, for it is a ram of consecration.
And one loaf of bread, and one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer out of the basket of
the unleavened bread that is before the Lord.
And thou shalt put all in the hands of Aaron, and in the hands of his sons, and shalt waive
them for a wave offering before the Lord.
And thou shalt receive them of their hands, and burn them upon the altar for a burnt offering,
for a sweet savor before the Lord.
It is an offering made by fire under the Lord.
And thou shalt take the breast of the ram of Aaron's consecration, and waive it for
a wave offering before the Lord, and it shall be thy part.
And thou shalt sanctify the breast of the wave offering, and the shoulder of the heave
offering, which is waived, and which is heaved up, of the ram of the consecration, even of
that which is for Aaron, and of that which is for his sons.
And it shall be Aaron's and his sons by a statute forever from the children of Israel,
for it is an heave offering, and it shall be an heave offering from the children of
Israel of the sacrifice of their peace offerings, even their heave offering, unto the Lord.
And the holy garments of Aaron shall be his sons after him, to be anointed therein, and
to be consecrated in them.
And that son that is priest in his stead shall put them all in seven days, when he cometh
into the tabernacle of the congregation, to minister in the holy place.
And thou shalt take the ram of the consecration, and seeth his flesh in the holy place.
And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram, and the bread that is in the basket,
by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And they shall eat those things wherewith the atonement was made, to consecrate and
to sanctify them.
But a stranger shall not eat thereof, because they are holy.
And if aught of the flesh of the consecrations, or of the bread, remain unto the morning,
then thou shalt burn the remainder with fire.
It shall not be eaten, because it is holy.
And thus shalt thou do unto Aaron, and to his sons, according to all things which I
have commanded thee, seven days shalt thou consecrate them.
And thou shalt offer every day a bullock for a sin offering, for atonement.
And thou shalt cleanse the altar, when thou hast made an atonement for it.
And thou shalt anoint it, to sanctify it.
Seven days thou shalt make an atonement for the altar, and sanctify it.
And it shall be an altar most holy.
Whatsoever toucheth the altar, shall be holy.
Now this is that which thou shalt offer upon the altar, two lambs of the first year, day
by day, continually.
The one lamb thou shalt offer in the morning, and the other lamb thou shalt offer at even.
And with the one lamb a tenth theel of flour mingled with the fourth part of an hen of
beaten oil, and the fourth part of an hen of wine for a drink offering.
And the other lamb thou shalt offer at even, and shalt do thereto according to the meat
offering of the morning, and according to the drink offering thereof, for a sweet savour,
an offering made by fire unto the Lord.
This shall be a continual burnt offering throughout your generations at the door of the tabernacle
of the congregation before the Lord, where I will meet you to speak there unto thee.
And there I will meet with the children of Israel, and the tabernacle shall be sanctified
by my glory.
And I will sanctify the tabernacle of the congregation and the altar.
I will sanctify also both Aaron and his sons, to minister to me in the priest's office.
And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will be their God.
And they shall know that I am the Lord their God, that brought them forth out of the land
of Egypt, that I may dwell among them.
I am the Lord their God.
CHAPTER XXX
And thou shalt make an altar to burn incense upon.
Of shittim wood shalt thou make it.
A cubit shall be the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof.
Four square shall it be, and two cubits shall be the height thereof, the horns thereof shall
be of the same.
And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, the top thereof, and the sides thereof round
about, and the horns thereof.
And thou shalt make unto it a crown of gold round about.
And two golden rings shalt thou make to it under the crown of it, by the two corners
thereof, upon the two sides of it shalt thou make it.
And they shall be for places for the staves to bear it withal.
And thou shalt make the staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold.
And thou shalt put it before the veil that is by the ark of the testimony, before the
mercy-seat that is over the testimony, where I will meet with thee.
And Aaron shall burn thereon sweet incense every morning.
When he dresseth the lamps he shall burn incense upon it.
And when Aaron lighteth the lamps at even he shall burn incense upon it, a perpetual
incense before the Lord throughout your generations.
He shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burnt sacrifice, nor meat offering, neither
shall ye pour drink offering thereon.
And Aaron shall make an atonement upon the horns of it once in a year with the blood
of the sin-offering of atonements.
Once in the year shall he make atonement upon it throughout your generations.
It is most holy unto the Lord.
And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, When thou takest the sum of the children of Israel
after their number, then shall they give every man a ransom for his soul unto the Lord when
thou numberest them, that there be no plague among them when thou numberest them.
This they shall give every one that passeth among them that are numbered half a shekel
after the shekel of the sanctuary, a shekel is twenty girahs, and half shekel shall be
the offering of the Lord.
Every one that passeth among them that are numbered from twenty years old and above shall
give an offering unto the Lord.
The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less than half a shekel when
they give an offering unto the Lord to make an atonement for your souls.
And thou shalt take the atonement money of the children of Israel, and shalt appoint
it for the service of the tabernacle of the congregation, that it may be a memorial unto
the children of Israel before the Lord to make an atonement for your souls.
And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Thou shalt also make a laver of brass and his foot
also of brass to wash withal, and thou shalt put it between the tabernacle of the congregation
and the altar, and thou shalt put water therein.
For Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet thereat.
When they go into the tabernacle of the congregation they shall wash with water that they die not,
or when they come near to the altar to minister to burn offering made by fire unto the Lord.
So they shall wash their hands and their feet that they die not, and it shall be a statute
for ever to them, even to him and to his seed, throughout their generations.
Moreover the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Take thou also unto the principal spices of
pure myrrh 500 shekels, and of sweet cinnamon half so much, even 250 shekels, and of sweet
calamus 250 shekels, and of castia 500 shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, and of
oil olive and hyn, and thou shalt make it an oil of holy ointment and ointment compound
after the ark of the apothecary, it shall be in holy anointing oil, and thou shalt anoint
the tabernacle of the congregation therewith, and the ark of the testimony, and the table
and all his vessels, and the candlestick and his vessels, and the altar of incense, and
the altar of burnt offering with all his vessels, and the laver and his foot, and thou shalt
sanctify them that they may be most holy, whatsoever toucheth them shall be holy, and
thou shalt anoint Aaron and his sons, and consecrate them that they may minister unto
me in the priest's office, and thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying,
This shall be in holy anointing oil unto me throughout your generations.
Upon man's flesh shall it not be poured, neither shall ye make any other like it after the
composition of it, it is holy, and it shall be holy unto you. Whosoever compoundeth any
like it, or whosoever putteth any of it upon a stranger, shall even be cut off from his
people.
And the Lord said unto Moses, Take unto these sweet spices Stacti and Onica and Galbanum,
these sweet spices with pure frankincense, of each shall there be a like weight, and
thou shalt make it a perfume, a confection, after the art of the apothecary, tempered
together, pure and holy, and thou shalt beat some of it very small, and put of it before
the testimony and the tabernacle of the congregation, where I will meet with thee, it shall be unto
you most holy.
And as for the perfume which thou shalt make, ye shall not make to yourselves according
unto the composition thereof, it shall be unto thee holy for the Lord. Whosoever shall
make like unto that, to smell thereto, shall even be cut off from his people.
CHAPTER 31
And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, See, I have called by name Bezalel the son of Uri,
the son of Her of the tribe of Judah, and I have filled him with the Spirit of God,
and in wisdom, and in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship,
to devise cunning works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass, and in cutting
of stones, to set them, and in carving of timber, to work in all manner of workmanship.
And I, behold, I have given with him a Holy Ab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of
Dan, and in the hearts of all that are wise-hearted I have put wisdom that they may make all that
I have commanded thee. The tabernacle of the congregation, and the ark of the testimony,
and the mercy seat that is thereupon, and all the furniture of the tabernacle, and the
table and his furniture, and the pure candlestick with all his furniture, and the altar of incense,
and the altar of burnt offering with all his furniture, and the laver and his foot, and
the cloths of service, and the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of
his sons to minister in the priest's office, and the anointing oil and sweet incense for
the holy place, according to all that I have commanded thee, shall they do.
And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak thou also unto the children of Israel, saying,
Verily my Sabbaths ye shall keep, for it is a sign between me and you throughout your
generations that ye may know that I am the Lord that doth sanctify you. He shall keep
the Sabbath therefore, for it is holy unto you. Every one that defile it shall surely
be put to death, for whosoever doeth any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among
his people. Six days may work be done, but in the seventh is the Sabbath of rest, holy
to the Lord. Whosoever doeth any work in the Sabbath day, he shall surely be put to death.
Wherefore the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath to observe the Sabbath throughout
their generations for a perpetual covenant. It is a sign between me and the children of
Israel forever, for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he
rested and was refreshed. And he gave unto Moses, when he had made an end of communing
with him upon Mount Sinai, two tables of testimony, tables of stone, written with the finger of God.